# The Greatest Pong Game

The intent of the project is to program a pong game for two players. 

The program displays a ball and two paddles in a figure. Each paddle corresponds to player as the users can use the keyboard to control the paddles. Player 1 is able to control the blue paddle using the “w” and “s” keys for up and down respectively. Player 2 is able to control the red paddle using the arrow keys up and down. The game was programmed to let the ball move around the figure with a certain velocity, and also have the ball bounce back when hitting the horizontal walls. The vertical edges do not act as walls, but rather as goals for the players to aim for. The figure was given a background and axes to define the boundaries of the arena. After, the ball and paddles had to be designed using the line command. Physical properties, such as color and thickness, were given to these designs. 

Several functions were created for different aspects of the game, such as the way the ball bounces back and the message boxes. Using the questdlg command, two different functions were created to display two different message boxes, one for the instructions and another one to declare the winner. The function for the instructions box was called first. After, functions to make the ball bounce and to determine when a player scores were created. The bouncing of the ball was coded using if statements and re-defining variables. The movement of the paddles was set up with the keyboard and with subfunctions. Scores were being kept by counter variables and displayed in the command window. These functionalities were called into a while loop that ran until the program was defined to not run anymore because the game ended. The while loop served as a way of keeping the functionalities running until the game stopped. The game was programmed to come to an end whenever one of these variables to keep track of scores reached a value of five, which is the score needed to win.The second message box was set to appear to congratulate the winner. 

The game was designed to have some noise. Therefore, functions that make beeping sounds were created. Three different sounds were created: one for each time the ball bounces on a paddle, one for each time a player scores, and one for when the game ends. Throughout the creation of the game, several functions were created and put on their own scripts for better structure and organization.
